# Windows 11 Automated Folder Backup

Automate your backup process on Windows 11 with this simple and efficient script.

## Overview

This project provides a set of scripts to automate the backup process for specific folders on Windows 11. By using batch (.bat) and VBScript (.vbs) files, you can schedule regular backups of your important data to an external drive or network location.

## Features

- **Automated Backup**: Schedule backups of specific folders to an external drive or network location.
- **Customizable**: Easily customize the source and destination folders for your backup needs.
- **Scheduled Backups**: Use Task Scheduler to automate the backup process at specified intervals.
- **Background Execution**: Run the backup process in the background without interfering with your workflow.
- **Detailed Logging**: Log the backup process to keep track of backup history and any errors encountered.

## How It Works

The Windows 11 Automated Folder Backup project consists of the following components:

- **0automation_background_process.vbs:** This VBScript operates discreetly in the background, serving as the initiation point for the backup process. Unlike batch (.bat) files, VBScripts can execute silently without displaying a command prompt window, ensuring a seamless user experience. The script orchestrates the execution of the backup by calling the necessary batch (.bat) files.

- **All_Drives_Backup.bat:** Functioning as a master script, All_Drives_Backup.bat coordinates the sequential execution of individual backup operations. By consolidating these operations, it offers users a convenient means of triggering multiple backups simultaneously.

- **log_file.txt:** This text file contains the output logs generated by the backup process. Each time the VBScript runs and initiates the backup, it appends a message to the log_file.txt, indicating whether the backup was successful or if any errors occurred. Users can refer to this log file to track the status of the automated backup process and troubleshoot any issues that may arise.

## Getting Started

To get started with the Windows 11 Automated Backup project, follow these steps:

1. Clone or download the project repository to your local machine.
2. Customize the source and destination folders in the provided scripts to match your backup requirements.
3. Set up Task Scheduler to schedule the backup process at desired intervals.
4. Run the scripts manually or let Task Scheduler execute them automatically for scheduled backups.

## Usage

### Prerequisites

- Windows 11 operating system
- External drive or network location for backup storage

### Installation

1. Clone the repository to your local machine:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/aennaco/Windows-11-Automated-Folder-Backup
   ```

2. Customize the source and destination folders in the provided scripts:
- Modify the source and destination paths in the .bat and .vbs files according to your backup requirements.
- On the All_Drives_Backup.bat, paste the template below and change the source_, destination_ as needed: 
```
rem ---------------------------------- 
rem  Backup OneDrive Documents
rem ---------------------------------- 


rem Set variables for source and destination folders
set "source_=C:\"
set "destination_=D:\"

rem Check if the destination folder exists, if not, create it
if not exist "%destination_%" mkdir "%destination_%"

rem Copy only the new or modified files from source folder to destination folder
xcopy "%source1%" "%destination_%" /D /E /C /Y

echo Your-folder Backup completed.

```


## Configuration
- Source Folder: Specify the folder(s) on your Windows 11 system that you want to back up.
- Destination Folder: Specify the location where you want to store the backup files (e.g., external drive, network location).

## Execution
- Manual Execution: Run the VBScript (.vbs) and/or provided batch (.bat) file manually to initiate the backup process.
- Scheduled Execution: Use Task Scheduler to **schedule VBScript (.vbs)** files for automatic execution at desired intervals.

 
## Contributing
Contributions to the Windows 11 Automated Folder Backup project are welcome! If you have ideas for improvements, new features, or bug fixes, feel free to open an issue or submit a pull request.

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License.

## Acknowledgements
- Inspired by the need for FREE a simple and efficient backup solution on Windows 11. 

## Support the Project

If you find this project helpful or valuable, please consider supporting its development. Your contributions help cover the costs of maintaining and improving the project, ensuring its continued growth and stability.

You can support me via [BuyMeACoffee](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/aennaco), where you can make a one-time donation or become a recurring supporter. Every contribution is greatly appreciated and goes directly towards supporting the project's ongoing development efforts.

Thank you for your support! 🙏🚀


